# 2.3 Introduction to Data Types in JavaScript
## What are Data Types?
In JavaScript, data types define the kind of values a variable can hold. Knowing about data types is essential for understanding how to work with different types of data in your code.

## primitive(common or basic) Data Types in JavaScript:
### Numbers:
- Represent numerical values. 
- Can be integers or floating-point numbers.
- Example: 10, 3.14

### Strings:
- Represent text or sequences of characters.
- Enclosed in quotes (single or double).
- Example: "Hello, world!", 'JavaScript is fun',`Hello JavaScript `	

### Booleans:
- Represent true or false values.
- Used for logical operations.
- Example: true, false

### Null:
- Represents an empty value.
- Often used to indicate the absence of a value.
- Example: null

### Undefined:
- Represents a variable that has been declared but not yet assigned a value.
- Example: let myVariable; // myVariable is undefined

### Symbols:
Unique identifiers for object properties (`Symbol('description')`).
  - Unique, even with the same description.
  - Not enumerable in standard object property enumeration.
  - Useful for private properties/methods
Undefined: Represents integers with arbitrary precision (e.g.,
 `1234567890123456789012345678901234567890n`).
  - Can handle numbers larger than the safe limit of the Number type.
  - Created by appending 'n' or using the `BigInt()` constructor.



How to Determine a Data Type:
You can use the typeof operator to find the data type of a variable.
Example:
```
let number = 10;
let text = "Hello";
let isTrue = true;
let person = { name: "Bob" };
let numbersArray = [1, 2, 3];
let emptyValue = null;
let uninitializedVariable;

console.log(typeof number); // Output: "number"
console.log(typeof text); // Output: "string"
console.log(typeof isTrue); // Output: "boolean"
console.log(typeof person); // Output: "object"
console.log(typeof numbersArray); // Output: "object"
console.log(typeof emptyValue); // Output: "object"
console.log(typeof uninitializedVariable); // Output: "undefined"
```
# Next Point :- [2.4 Non-Primitive Data Types in JavaScript](../02_Basic_Syntax_and_Language_Fundamentals/2.4_Non_Primitive_Data_Types_in_JavaScript.md)